Ancient Empires
NEW GAME
SELECT LEVEL
SAVE GAME
LOAD GAME
SKIRMISH
SETTINGS
INSTRUCTIONS
ABOUT
EXIT
OK
Cancel
Next
Ancient Empires is a thrilling strategy game putting you in the role of King Galamar as you fight to reclaim your kingdom.||Next are instructions, hints and tips on how to play as they appear as part of the game. For more help visit www.macrospace.com.||
 is a product of Macrospace Ltd. For more information, questions or feedback please email games@macrospace.com.|Copyright Macrospace Ltd 2003. All Rights Reserved.
©MACROSPACE LTD.
PLAYER
Fight Animation
Help
Music
Sound
Vibrate
Back
GAME OVER
LOADING . . .
PRESS ANY KEY
MAIN MENU
MOVE
ATTACK
BUY
END MOVE
CANCEL
END TURN
OCCUPY
RAISE
MAP
OBJECTIVE
MISSION COMPLETE
OCCUPIED
TURN END
GAME SAVED
GAME LOADED
NO SAVED GAMES
GALAMAR
VALADORN
LIZARD CHIEF
POISON
AURA
REGROUP
FRIENDS&ENEMIES
ESCORT
REINFORCEMENTS
WYVERN RESCUE!
SIEGE!
FINAL ASSAULT
King Galamar must occupy castle, keep all troops alive.
Occupy the castle and at least one village, produce at least one new unit of troops.
Galamar and the Lizard Chief must reach the Grey Tower.
Save the city: destroy all enemy units!
Destroy all enemy units and free the wyverns.
Destroy all enemy units and occupy the enemy castle.
Destroy all enemy units and save the kingdom!
Destroy the enemy king!
SOLDIER
ARCHER
LIZARD
WIZARD
WISP
SPIDER
GOLEM
CATAPULT
WYVERN
KING
SKELETON
Hardworking and brave, soldiers form the backbone of any army. They are also the only unit that can capture towns to earn gold.
With their powerful bows archers can attack from a distance and are especially powerful against airborne enemies.
Decendants of the ancient amphibian empire spanning the marshlands in the east, Lizards are proud warriors. They are immensely mobile and stronger in defence when in water.
The ancient guild of wizards are weak at close combat, but immensely useful as they can summon fighting skeletons from dead troops.
These mystical beings of pure Light radiate an aura which adds attack points to nearby friendly units. In close combat they are especially deadly against skeletons.
Spiders are dangerous creatures whose natural habitat spans the unforgiving dark forests of the west. In addition to being highly mobile, spiders use a poisoned attack to weaken their opponents for one turn.
Forged out of living rock by the dwarf tribes of the Lost Mountains, Golems are slow but immensely strong in defence. A golem stationed in a building or a well defended mountain is very difficult to defeat.
Catapults bring devastation wherever they go with their enormous attack range. However, their relative immobility and inability to attack up close make them vulnerable, so guard them well. Catapults can either move or attack during a turn, but not do both.
These majestic flying beasts have ruled over the mountains of mist since ancient times. They are extremely mobile as well as deadly in attack on land, air and sea.
The heartbeat of the army, a King is very strong in attack and defence. Kings do not usually take part in battles, as they are the only units capable to buy new troops when stationed in a castle.
Summoned by Wizards, these lifeless warriors are as strong as soldiers and deadly opponents on any battlefield.
Select and move units by pressing 5 and then pressing 5 again on the selected destination square. A unit can move and attack once per turn.
The flashing white border marks the movement range of a unit. A unit's range is determined by its type and the terrain it is on.
Different types of terrain affect a unit's ability to move, attack and defend. For example, mountains add defence points but slow units down. When you move the cursor these terrain features appear at the bottom of the screen.
When a unit has completed a move, an 'E' appears next to it. This means that it cannot be used again until your next turn.
You can move each unit only once each turn. When you have finished moving your units click the left soft key and choose 'end turn'.
You can view the characteristics of any unit by selecting it and pressing the '7' key. Units get more powerful as they gain battle experience.
You can view the attack range of any unit by pressing '0' when it is selected.
To attack an enemy unit, move your unit within range and select 'attack'. If there is more than one enemy in range, select which unit to attack. The success of your attack is determined by unit characteristics and terrain.
Only a king can occupy a castle. When stationed in a castle, the king can purchase new units with gold.
You can occupy buildings by moving a soldier onto it and selecting 'occupy'. Once a building is occupied, it changes colour.
Once a building has been occupied, it earns gold. The more buildings you occupy, the more you earn.
Units can be healed by occupying buildings. The longer a unit stays, the more life it regains.
Lizards are amphibious, giving them increased movement and defence when in water.
A spider's attack is poisonous. A poisoned unit is slow and weak for its next turn.
A tombstone shows where a unit has been defeated. It disappears after 1 turn.
Wizards have the power to summon skeleton warriors from the graves of fallen soldiers. After a unit has been defeated, a tombstone appears for 1 turn. Move a wizard next to a tombstone and select 'raise'
Use wisps to provide nearby friendly units with an aura that augments their attack points.
Keep your wyverns away from enemy archers, as they are vulnerable to arrows!
The Kingdom of Thorin is divided. Betrayed by his own twin brother Valadorn, King Galamar has fled into the borderlands of the east. Only the Blue guard, Galamar's personal troops, have remained loyal and stand ready to reclaim the land...
King Galamar has survived Valadorn's attack. However, before Galamar can try to reclaim his kingdom he must first travel north to seek new allies.
The Lizard Chief agrees to join Galamar's forces. Now Galamar's thoughts turn to the wizards of the Grey Tower. If the Lizard Chief can persuade them to help, their magic would be a great asset to his growing forces.
Having reached the Grey Tower the High Wizard agrees to help Galamar. However, Galamar's troops have no time to rest, as a message arrives from the nearby city of Var Telan, telling of a surprise attack by Valadorn's Red legion.
As Galamar's forces settle into the city castle, a scout patrol discovers some flying serpents called wyverns being held captive at an enemy campsite nearby. Could the wyverns be used against Valadorn and his forces? To find out, Galamar will have to rescue them.
With the powerful wyverns adding to his forces, Galamar is ready to fight back against Valadorn. He decides to mount a surprise attack on the main command outpost outside Thorin city.
Galamar is on the verge of recapturing the city when suddenly a huge explosion splits the ground.
With Galamar victorious, the spell controlling Valadorn is broken. The evil force is none other than Saeth, the shadow demon! His plan defeated, with a terrible roar he orders his dark army to attack Galamar. Will the newly united Kingdom of Thorin withstand this attack? Can Galamar and his brother banish the evil Saeth once and for all?
Sire, your troops are weary after last night's battle. It would be wise to regroup at the abandoned castle.
Sound advice, captain. Ready the troops - we should not let the enemy catch us unprepared.
Valadorn's army should be easy to spot with their red uniforms.
Spies!! Valadorn and his Red legion must know where we are! Quickly, protect the King!
Forward, troops. But first, occupy these two buildings. We can rest once we reach the next village.
Sire, our scouts report that the lizard people of the north are under attack!
Then we must act quickly! The Lizard Chief is an old ally, and he will be sure to help us if we can save him.
Sire, these lizards bring news from their village. They are under attack from forest spiders!
Spiders? Then we will have to use the terrain to our advantage - rushing to attack would be foolish.
Be careful your majesty - the spiders attack is poisonous!
Sire, the bridge has been destroyed!
Valadorn must be expecting us - we must find another way across. This could be a trap.
Troops! Keep your eyes open and protect the Lizard Chief at all cost.
Your majesty, the Red legion! Watch out for their long range catapult!
What is this treachery! The city has turned against us!
As predictable as ever, brother! I have you now!
Retreat!! Curse you Galamar! You won't be so lucky next time!
Sources indicate that the wyverns are being held in this castle.
Be careful, your Majesty, wyverns can be formidable enemies as well as powerful allies.
Look your Majesty, the wyverns have broken free! They are now under our command!
The city is well defended, your Majesty.
So it seems. We may have to alter our battle plan.
Valadorn's troops appearing everywhere?! What kind of evil magic is this?
So, twin brother, it seems our positions are reversed! Submit now or be destroyed!
Never! Whatever dark power is controlling you, I will defeat it!
Galamar... what have I done?
The spell! It's broken!
